a clock ticks through the fighters life
has integral all our lives but for the
fighter it takes louder and faster
everything must be achieved to time two
or three minutes and the rounds over
eight ten twelve rounds and the contest
is decided thirty years old and most
fighters are looking at retirement if
they're lucky they've earned enough to
set themselves up in a decent home and
start their own business if they're not
so lucky they're back on the streets at
once carried their posters markayla was
29 married with two sons and living out
in california September 1990 he came
back to Britain for one more go at it
one more sort on the road of titles he
came back to West Ham back to Jimmy who
trained him in the old days it was his
own gamble against the odds he spend his
own money on a plane ticket paid for his
mother to take his place in California
and help his wife with the kids
while she went out to work earned the
money to help keep this enterprise going
seven grand was spent
two months of hard training to pull the
fighter in him into shape
fight was announced at the Docklands
arena where he had to make do with
second billing the posters went up the
local papers wrote up some coffee
reprinted some old photos the fight fans
watched and waited and argued over
whether he was washed up while still had
the old kala in him I watched him
sparring those last few days with many
fighters Michael Watts as one of them
the gym was quiet then the fight game
was slowing down it was a few weeks
before Christmas even to my inexperience
died I could feel him reaching a peak
and I got excited about it
eager for the fight
but the date kept moving around not this
week but next week not next week but
Tuesday the week after not the arena but
your call two days before the final date
6:00 at night the fight was cancelled
and the pyramid of effort collapsed
he took the night plane to Los Angeles
7,000 pounds lighter back to his wife
and kids unfulfilled back to square one
the other fighters on the bill they
didn't have California I had to make do
in Canning Town no fight no payday to
get them through Christmas at New Year
markayla was back and if anything he was
even more determined he blew his whole
family over from the states and Pat was
behind him reporting this last effort to
be the fighter he believes absolutely he
could still become better than the old
Kayla world champion
it was coming for all of them the five
date in a dozen arenas a dozen rings
were coming together dates were fixing
training pitched at those dates on a
countdown schedule